---
layout: post
title: Meta Analysis
subtitle: by Eshan Mehere
cover-img: /assets/img/download (1).jpeg
thumbnail-img: /assets/img/thumb.png
---

Study I used: Janno Jürgenson, Martin Serg, Priit Kampus, Jaak Kals, Maksim Zagura, Kersti Zilmer, Mihkel Zilmer, Jaan Eha, Eve Unt. (2021) Effect of Half-Marathon Running on Arterial Stiffness and Blood Biomarkers in High-Level and Recreational Male Athletes. Journal of Sports Science and Medicine (20), 548 - 556. https://doi.org/10.52082/jssm.2021.548

1. Null Hypothesis: Intensive Physical activity has no impact on arterial stiffness and other related blood biomarkers. Alternative Hypothesis: Intensive physical activity has a significant impact on arterial stiffness and other blood biomarkers
2. Nine scientists authored this report. Data was collected by these scientists in Estonia in the form of both blood tests and physical examination. The study’s procedure had to be approved by the Medical Ethics Committee at the University of Tartu.
3. This paper refers to several research papers to come to conclusions about the biology of this situation in the setup for the study. In addition, it references multiple datasets, some of which support the null hypothesis, some of whom support the alternative hypothesis, and some of whom do neither. All the datasets and meta analyses referenced are cited, and they are also labeled as “public,” meaning one can presume they are available to the public. 
4. The authors of this study characterized prior studies on this subject as “inconsistent,” implying their aim in this study is to find a more objective answer to their research question. Moreover, they state that there is limited data on the impact of physical activity on arterial stiffness on extremely high-level athletes, like the ones that are being observed in this study. Overall, while there seems to have been a lot of research done relating to and discussing the research question of this study, there are no studies that have answered this exact question. 
5. The data collected in this study was in the form of biological markers of both high-level athletes and recreational runners before (baseline) and 18-22 hours after a half-marathon run. These include augmentation index, pulse-wave velocities at carotid-femoral segment, blood pressure, arterial stiffness, hsCRP, creatine kinase, LDH activity, and oxidative stress markers. In addition, the researchers performed a physical examination, and exercise test 1 week before the competition. In addition, their training habits and training amount, sleep habits and sleep amount were all analyzed before the competition. The study also analyzed the athletes’ diets before, during, and after the competition. The athletes’ height, weight, BMI, and Body fat percentage were also measured. Heart rate and maximum oxygen intake were among the other measured categories. Furthermore, several other biological markers relating to multiple parts of the body were measured to give further context to this study and to allow the researchers to come to a conclusion about the main data points they were measuring. It seems as though the data collected in this study was all-encompassing when it comes to this field of study, and also sufficient to reach a conclusion. I cannot think of other data points that may have been necessary to include, though I am sure they exist. 
6. The conclusion reached in this study was that the presence of a half-marathon competition did not overall cause changes in arterial stiffness after the competition. The evidence to support this claim is in the form of data collected on arterial stiffness before and after the half-marathon competition. There were several research questions being answered in this study, and another one was how blood biomarkers changed before and after competition between two types of groups (serious athletes and recreational athletes). The answer	is not very much, apparently. The evidence for this conclusion is also in the actual data being collected in this study, as the researchers found almost all of the measured blood biomarkers deviated at similar levels amongst groups. 
7. This study was funded by “Institutional and Personal Research Funding.” I would assume this means that the institutions that these researchers work for helped support this study. In addition to the personal funds of these researchers.
8. I think it’s certainly possible that “publish or perish” played a role in this study. The study was certainly thorough and robust in its procedure and collection of data. However it did not really reach a meaningful conclusion. It supported the null hypothesis in each question that was being asked. It seems as though these researchers published this for the sake of publishing and not because it was giving any new substantial information on the field of study. 

